# cop4520hw2

# Question 1

- To run the program, navigate to the Q1 folder in the repository inside the terminal. Then, run the command "javac Minotaur.java Labyrinth.java" to compile the program. Enter the command "java Minotaur (number)" to run the program, where number is the number of guests you want to run the program with. The output for the program prints out to the console ""All guests have gone through the Labyrinth in (time) seconds".
- For my implementation, I utilized a binary semaphore to handle locking the guest threads so that only one guest could be going through the labyrinth at a time. To solve the problem, I have one guest designated as the counter. The strategy is that only the counter may replace an eaten cupcake, keeping track of how many cupcakes he has been putting back on the plate. Meanwhile, every guest, including the counter, will eat any available cupcakes their first time coming across one, otherwise moving past to the exit. Eventually, the counter wll have placed as many cupcakes as there are guests, meaning that everyone has gone throuh the Labyrinth at least once.

# Question 2

- To run the program, navigate to the Q2 folder in the repository inside the terminal. Then, run the command "javac Minotaur.java Showroom.java" to compile the program. Enter the command "java Minotaur (number)" to run the program, where number is the number of guests you want to run the program with. 
- For my implementation, I chose to go with option #2. Strategy #2 provides the guests with the ability to perform other actions if the door is not available. I implemented this option by using a binary semaphore to model the available/busy sign. To check if the door is open, a guest will attempt to acquire a permit from the semaphore. If a permit is available, the guest will claim it and enter the room, at which point there will not be an available permit, representing the switch from available to busy. If a permit isn't available, the acquire method used will not require them to wait in line, as they would be able to see a busy sign and come back later. However, a disadvantage of this option is that there is no specific order to when threads are going to enter the room. Thus, there is a little variation on the time it might take for every guest to visit the room at least once.
